     Apache Cassandra – An Introduction
• Apache Cassandra was born at Facebook. After Facebook open
  sourced the code in 2008, Cassandra became an Apache Incubator
  project in 2009 and subsequently became a top-level Apache project
  in 2010.


• It is a column-oriented database designed to support peer-to-peer
  symmetric nodes instead of the master−slave architecture.

• It is built on Amazon’s dynamo and Google’s BigTable.

• It is highly scalable, high performance distributed database

• It is column oriented database designed to support peer to peer
  network

• Adherance to availability and partition tolerance of CAP
                       Big Data and Analytics by Seema Acharya and
                                  Subhashini Chellappan
                          Copyright 2015, WILEY INDIA PVT. LTD.
 Features:
1. Peer to Peer Network
                -Designed to distribute and manage large data
                loads across multiple nodes in a cluster
                constituted of commodity hardware

                -Does     NOT    have     a    master       slave
                architecture-NOT have a single point of failure

                -Graceful degradation where everything does
                not come crashing at any instant owing a node
                failure

                - Ensures data is distributed across all nodes in
                  the cluster

                - Each node exchange information across the
                  cluster every second
2.   Gossip and Failure Detection
     • Gossip protocol is used for intra ring communication

     • Peer to peer communication protocol which eases the
       discovery and sharing of location and state information with
       other nodes in the cluster

     • A node only has to send out the communication to a subset
       of other nodes
3. Partitioner
• A partioner takes a call on how to distribute data on the
  various nodes in the cluster

• It also determines the node on which to place the very first
  copy of the data

• A partitioner is a hash function is used to compute the token
  of the partion key
4. Replication factor
Node Node is the place where data is stored. It is the basic
component of Cassandra.

Data Center A collection of nodes are called data center.
Many nodes are categorized as a data center.
                            rti

Cluster The cluster is the collection of many data centers.
As hardware problem can occur or link can be down at any time
during data process, a solution is required to provide a backup when
the problem has occurred.

So data is replicated for assuring no single point of failure.

Cassandra places replicas of data on different nodes based on these
two factors.

1. Where to place next replica is determined by the Replication
Strategy.

2.While the total number of replicas placed on different nodes is
determined by the Replication Factor.

One Replication factor means that there is only a single copy of data
while three replication factor means that there are three copies of the
data on three different nodes.
    There are two kinds of replication strategies in Cassandra.
1. SimpleStrategy

•SimpleStrategy is used when you have just one data center.

•SimpleStrategy places the first replica on the node selected by the
 partitioner.

•After that, remaining replicas are placed in clockwise direction in
 the Node ring.

•Here is the pictorial representation of the SimpleStrategy.
2. NetworkTopologyStrategy

•NetworkTopologyStrategy is used when you have more than two
 data centers.

•In NetworkTopologyStrategy, replicas are set for each data center
 separately.

•NetworkTopologyStrategy places replicas in the clockwise direction
 in the ring until reaches the first node in another rack.

•This strategy tries to place replicas on different racks in the same
 data center.
•This is due to the reason that sometimes failure or problem
 can occur in the rack. Then replicas on other nodes can
 provide data.

•Here is the pictorial representation of the Network topology
 strategy
•Read consistency means how many replicas must respond before sending out
the result to client application

•Write consistency is how many replicas write must succeed before sending out
an acknowledgement to the client application
5. Anti Entropy and Read Repair

•A client can connect to any node in the cluster to read data

•How many nodes will be read before responding to the client is
based on the Consistency level specified by the client

• If few of the nodes respond with an out of date value Cassandra
will initiate a read repair to bring the replicas with stale values up
to date

•This is done using Anti Entropy gossip protocol.

•Anti entropy implies comparing all the replicas of each piece of
data and updating each replica to the newest version
6. Write operation in Cassandra

• When write request comes to the node, first of all, it logs in the commit
log. Commit log is used for crash recovery.

 • After data written in Commit log, data is written in Mem-table

• Data written in the mem-table on each write request also writes in commit
 log separately.

•Mem-table is a temporarily stored data in the memory while Commit log
 logs the transaction records for back up purposes or crash recovery

•When mem-table is full, data is flushed to the SSTable data file.
               7. Hinted Handoffs
                                                                       Three nodes A,B, C

                                                                       C is down
                                 Coordinator
                                                   Node C is down.
                                               Write a hint in your
                                                                       Replication factor is 2
                                               table
                                     A
                                                                             Write operation on node A
          Writes Row K
                                                            Replicates Row K which is the coordinator and
 Client           System hints
                  table
                                                                             serves as a proxy
                                      B
                                                                       When row k is wriiten by the
                                                                       client to Node A, it will write
                                                                       row K to node B and stores a
                                      C                                hint for Node C.


 Hint has the following information
1. Location of the node on which replica is to be placed
2. Version Mtada
3. Actual data
  8. Tunable Consistency

  Strong Consistency- Each update propagates to all location where that piece
  of data resides

  Eventual Consistency- Client is acknowledged with success as soon as part of
  the cluster acknowledges the write




Big Data and Analytics by Seema Acharya and
           Subhashini Chellappan
   Copyright 2015, WILEY INDIA PVT. LTD.
              Read Consistency

    ONE                                  Returns a response from the closest node (replica)
                                         holding the data.
    QUORUM                               Returns a result from a quorum of servers with the
                                         most recent timestamp for the data.
    LOCAL_QUORUM                         Returns a result from a quorum of servers with the
                                         most recent timestamp for the data in the same data center as
                                         the coordinator node.
    EACH_QUORUM                          Returns a result from a quorum of servers with the
                                         most recent timestamp in all data centers.
    ALL                                  This provides the highest level of consistency of all
                                         levels and the lowest level of availability of all levels. It responds
                                         to a read request from a client after all the replica nodes have
                                         responded.


Big Data and Analytics by Seema Acharya and
           Subhashini Chellappan
   Copyright 2015, WILEY INDIA PVT. LTD.
          Write Consistency
    ALL                        This is the highest level of consistency of all levels as it necessitates that a write
                               must be written to the commit log and Memtable on all replica nodes in the cluster.


    EACH_QUORUM                A write must be written to the commit log and Memtable on a quorum
                               of replica nodes in all data centers.
    QUORUM                     A write must be written to the commit log and Memtable on a quorum of replica nodes.


    LOCAL_QUORUM               A write must be written to the commit log and Memtable on a quorum of replica nodes in
                               the same data center as the coordinator node. This is to avoid latency of inter-data
                               center communication.

    ONE                        A write must be written to the commit log and Memtable of at least one
                               replica node.
    TWO                        A write must be written to the commit log and Memtable of at least two replica
                               nodes.
    THREE                      A write must be written to the commit log and Memtable of at least three replica
                               nodes.
    LOCAL_ONE                  A write must be sent to, and successfully acknowledged by, at least one
                               replica node in the local data center.

Big Data and Analytics by Seema Acharya and
           Subhashini Chellappan
   Copyright 2015, WILEY INDIA PVT. LTD.
Cassandra - Data Model

The data model of Cassandra is significantly different from what we normally see in an RDBMS.

Cluster
Cassandra database is distributed over several machines that operate together.

The outermost container is known as the Cluster.

 For failure handling, every node contains a replica, and in case of a failure, the replica takes charge.

Cassandra arranges the nodes in a cluster, in a ring format, and assigns data to them.
Keyspace

Keyspace is the outermost container for data in Cassandra. The basic attributes of a Keyspace in Cassandra are −

Replication factor − It is the number of machines in the cluster that will receive copies of the same data.

Replica placement strategy − It is nothing but the strategy to place replicas in the ring. We have strategies such
as simple strategy (rack-aware strategy), old network topology strategy (rack-aware strategy), and network topology
strategy (datacenter-shared strategy).

Column families − Keyspace is a container for a list of one or more column families.
                 A column family, in turn, is a container of a collection of rows.
                  Each row contains ordered columns.
                  Column families represent the structure of your data.
                  Each keyspace has at least one and often many column families.
The syntax of creating a Keyspace is as follows −

CREATE KEYSPACE Keyspace name WITH replication = {'class':
'SimpleStrategy', 'replication_factor' : 3};

The following illustration shows a schematic view of a Keyspace.
     Column Family

     A column family is a container for an ordered collection of rows. Each row,
     in turn, is an ordered collection of columns


The following figure shows an example of a Cassandra column family.
The following table lists down the points that differentiate the data model of Cassandra from that of an RDBMS.



                     RDBMS                              Cassandra
                     RDBMS deals with                   Cassandra deals with
                     structured data.                   unstructured data.
                     It has a fixed schema.             Cassandra has a flexible
                                                        schema.
                     In RDBMS, a table is an            In Cassandra, a table is a
                     array of arrays. (ROW x            list of “nested key-value
                     COLUMN)                            pairs”. (ROW x COLUMN
                                                        key x COLUMN value)
                     Database is the outermost Keyspace is the outermost
                     container that contains data container that contains data
                     corresponding to an          corresponding to an
                     application.                 application.
                     Tables are the entities of a       Tables or column families
                     database.                          are the entity of a
                                                        keyspace.
                     Row is an individual record Row is a unit of replication
                     in RDBMS.                   in Cassandra.
                     Column represents the              Column is a unit of storage
                     attributes of a relation.          in Cassandra.
                     RDBMS supports the                 Relationships are
                     concepts of foreign keys,          represented using
                     joins.                             collections.
10:001,12:002,11:003,22:004;
Smith:001,Jones:002,Johnson:003,Jones:004;
Joe:001,Mary:002,Cathy:003,Bob:004;
60000:001,80000:002,94000:003,55000:004;
Set
  What Cassandra does not support
  There are following limitations in Cassandra query language (CQL).
1.CQL does not support aggregation queries like max, min, avg
2.CQL does not support group by, having queries.
3.CQL does not support joins.
4.CQL does not support OR queries.
5.CQL does not support wildcard queries.
6.CQL does not support Union, Intersection queries.
7.Table columns cannot be filtered without creating the index.
8.Greater than (>) and less than (<) query is only supported on clustering column.Cassandra query
  language is not suitable for analytics purposes because it has so many limitations.




        Create keyspace University
Create keyspace University with
replication={'class':SimpleStrategy,'replication_factor'
: 3};


Create Student Table Student Rollno, Name, Dept
Alter table to add semester
‘Alter Table’ that will add new column in the table Student.




                 Describe the table contents
Insert the values into table and update student
name of rollno 18
Delete the contents of rollno 1
Select all CS dept students
Remove index
Create Teacher Table- Id, Name, Email
Set collection that store multiple email addresses for the
teacher.
Add Courses to Teacher table
insert in column “coursenames”.
shows the current database state
after insertion.
 Write query when you want to save
course name with its prerequisite course
name
 data is being inserted in map collection
type
Remove the contents of table
Drop table and Keyspace
Drop keyspace University;
